# Welcome to our SC3020 Course Project 1
## About

This is a project for SC3020 (Database System Principles) where we:
1. Designed and implemented a storage system with an unspanned record allocation strategy in a team of 4, optimizing query performance through efficient one-pass operations and bulk loading for faster data population
2. Optimized B+ Tree insertion and deletion algorithms for balanced structure and minimal I/O operations

## Information
1. **B+ Tree Structure Implementation**  
   In our database management system, we have implemented a B+ Tree structure, which provides efficient indexing and retrieval capabilities for large datasets like our NBA games database. This meets the need for a robust and efficient data structure to manage and retrieve games by `FG_PCT_home` (Field Goal Percentage).
   
2. **B+ Tree Operations**  
   We have implemented the following operations on the B+ Tree:
   - Search
   - Insertion
   - Deletion
3. **Retrieval Metrics**  
   We are able to determine the following metrics:
   - Number of nodes of the updated B+ tree
   - Number of levels of the updated B+ tree
   - Content of the root node of the updated B+ tree
   - Number of index nodes accessed during the process
   - Number of data blocks accessed during the process
   - Average of `FG3_PCT_home` of the records returned
   - Running time of the retrieval process
   - Number of data blocks accessed by a brute-force linear scan method
   - Running time for brute-force linear scan



## Refer to the below for Installation Instructions

1. Download `clang++` for compilation on MacOS / Linux and `Windows Subsystem for Linux` on Windows.
2. Clone this repository.
3. Navigate to `build` folder and run the following command:

Compile Command: `clang++ -std=c++11 -stdlib=libc++  ../src/main.cpp ../src/record.cpp ../src/storage.cpp ../src/bplustree.cpp -o main`

4. Run the `main` file generated.

## Output Files
1. `experiments.txt` : contains all the experiment data required from the project.
2. `output.txt` : contains all cout statements used for debugging data generated by the program.

Please refer to the comments in the code to get a better understanding of our implementations.
